[Transcript missing]
My name is Kaz Ohta.
Myself and a few more people will
talk about the interactive aspects
of QuickTime in this session.
I was told that there is simultaneous
translation going into Japanese,
which is my primary language.
So I'm kind of curious how many of
you actually understand Japanese.
Just raise your hand.
Quite a few.
Well, I guess I'm going to
try speaking Japanese.
Ohayou gozaimasu.
Nihongo de ikimashou ka?
Well, I don't think the translation
goes the other way around,
so I'm going to speak in English.
Anyway, I'd like to spend a few more
time talking about some of the
Halberd overview of interactivity.
So in this WWDC,
the interactivity has already
gotten a lot of exposure.
How many of you went to
the keynote on Monday?
Good.
Where Steve Jobs showed a demo
of our new fully immersive
panorama projection engine.
How about the QuickTime overview
session on Monday afternoon?
Very good.
Where Tim Schaaf talked about
interactivity and Jim Batson showed
a few very interesting demos.
And I'm sure those of you who went to
the software technology and scripting
session yesterday were amazed with the
stuff Matthew Peterson put together,
which actually pushed the interactivity
technology to the extreme.
I'm sure nobody in the
QuickTime engineering team
had imagined that you could
do that much with QuickTime.
So I think you already have a
pretty much good idea about what a
QuickTime movie can do in order to
deliver interactive user experience.
So what we're going to do in this
session is to pick a few specific
features and take a closer look,
and then talk about how you
can take advantage of it.
So what we're going to talk about is the
kinds of user experience you can provide
through the interactivity features.
And we also are going to talk about some
of the tools and techniques you can use.
Some of these things are
already available to you,
so you can try them out today.
And some are things we're
working on right now.
Of course, we try hard so that these
new things become available
to you as soon as possible,
but don't try them at home yet.
So for those of you who are
already familiar with some
of the details of QuickTime,
these are kinds of things
we call interactivity.
And how those pieces fit together can be
shown conceptually as in this diagram.
We have the foundation of
QuickTime Core at the very bottom.
And we have a few services which provide
additional interactivity to your media.
And we have a set of standard
interactive media like sprite,
flash, VR object, and VR panorama.
And on top of all of these,
we have the movie controller,
which works as the interface to the user.
By having the standard
movie controller here,
we can provide consistent user
experience across various kinds of media.
And I think you learned some of
the techniques you can support
streaming movies better in
your playback application.
And I think Kevin Kofun did an excellent
summary of some of the techniques and
tips and techniques in your application.
And the important thing is that many
of the things which allows streaming,
which supports streaming movies better,
these kind of things works for
interactivity movies better.
So please remember that.
So what is interactivity?
Here's how we define it.
It is not driven by time,
but driven by events generated by user.
A good example is a slideshow like this.
It goes forward.
and Backward based on your action
through the keyboard or mouse or
a remote control device like this.
[Transcript missing]
The key element here is that
the media react in response
to your action in real time.
A good example is a
QuickTime VR panorama,
where you can change the view in
panorama based on your action.
One more important thing I'd like
to talk about is the ability to
navigate through a media composition.
One of the strengths of QuickTime is
to be able to combine various
kinds of media into a single
composition or single container.
And in that case,
it is a natural consequence
that you would like to have
control over combined media.
In that case,
the way those media are composed
is specific to a presentation.
The presentation has to provide
a way to control these media.
This is where the
interactivity comes into play.
You can think of a presentation
which has a couple of video clips,
each of which has its own controller.
Movie embedding is something
you can use in order to provide
this kind of user experience.
We're going to talk about movie
embedding later in this session.
Now,
I'd like to spend a few more minutes to
talk about the levels of interactivity.
which will help us classifying
broad range of interactive user
experiences and help us set the right
focus across these user experiences.
Examples of media which have least
level of interactivity are things like
traditional TV broadcasting and cinema.
You basically sit back and
relax in front of your screen,
and all you do is to push
one of a few control buttons.
And I think you would want to have
a large cup of soda and popcorn.
I guess you'd call it
a couchy potato style,
is that right?
Well, I think that in this case you would
need potato chips instead of popcorns,
but that doesn't really matter.
Surfing the net would require a
little bit more interactivity.
Nothing would happen if you were sitting
stationary in front of your computer.
You locate the links on the
web page and then click them
in order to get things going.
I think that requires a
little bit more calories,
so I guess you want to have a couple
of pieces of pizza in addition.
And things that require the
highest level of interactivity
and engagement are video games.
I think it is likely that you are
leaning forward towards your screen and
tightly holding your control device.
I don't think you have time to bite
something in the middle of the game.
So this may be a kind
of starving experience.
So where are the QuickTime focuses?
We think our focus is mid to
high level of interactivity.
Our goal is to provide the
level of interactivity which
goes beyond the traditional web
browsing based on hypertext.
We'd like to have that level
of interactivity with more
dynamic kinds of media.
And we want your experience
not to be so starving.
And the other thing is
the media composition.
As I mentioned,
combining multiple kinds of media
into a single container is one
of the strengths of QuickTime.
And we continue to focus on that.
And you can add some sort of
interactive behavior to your media
object through wired actions.
And I think this is another
big advantage of QuickTime.
And of course,
the primary means of sharing your
media content is the Internet.
So we continue to work on this area so
that you can provide more interactive
experience through the internet.
So what exactly you'll
learn in this session?
We're going to talk about a
couple of the interactive features
you can have access to today.
The first thing is some of the
tricks and techniques you can use
within QuickTime VR and Flash.
And the other thing is
the movie embedding.
In which you can do some interesting
things combining your media.
And then we're going to talk
about a couple of new things
we are working on right now.
The first one is the extension to
our Panorama projection engine,
for which Steve showed a
demo on Monday's keynote.
And the other thing is the
extensions to Word Actions,
which helps your movie to
communicate with the server.
We're going to show some demos
using WebObjects on this topic.
So I'd like to have Eric Blaenpied
to come up and talk about some of the
techniques you can use in VR and Flash.
Eric?
Thank you, Kaz.
Good morning.
So I'm a content guy in
the QuickTime team working
on interactive stuff.
And I wound up,
right today I'm going to be talking to
you about things that we can do already,
stuff that you can go home and work with.
First off,
existing QuickTime VR panoramas
and object movies
Since we released QuickTime VR,
the main thing that we've stressed is
the ability to do these 360 degree views
from the inside and from the outside.
Pretty much referring to them
as scenes or panoramas when
you're looking from the inside.
And we've referred to them almost
as objects when you're looking
at a thing from the outside in.
And lately we've been sort of trying
to point out that on the web with
all of the product work going on,
thinking of objects and products
is a really good approach.
Of course, panoramas or scenes can be of
things that are products for sale,
such as houses and all.
But generally speaking,
the stuff that you're selling with
this sort of interactivity would be...
products you can hold, or, well,
cars you can't hold,
but there's a lot of work
done with cars as well.
The other major things that we
use in the interactive parts
of QuickTime are sprite movies,
which consist of mainly bitmap artwork,
or sometimes vector artwork as well,
that winds up getting downloaded and
used and transformed and so forth,
as opposed to having
multiple frames in a movie.
And flash tracks,
which involve Macromedia's
excellent graphics engine,
allowing us to
do vector-based artwork that's
quite sophisticated and composite
in interesting ways with
other QuickTime media types.
And then finally,
we build wired movies using any
and all of these technologies,
adding actions to the
various different elements,
adding URL links and
other sorts of things,
adding deep interactivity in many ways,
the kind of stuff that a few
years ago we really had to use
dedicated authoring environments
and playback environments for.
But now, with QuickTime's interactivity,
it can happen anywhere.
A big deal about VR movies
on the web has been
People have complained about their size,
especially with the objects.
And a big issue with a lot of it
is actually more of a perceived
speed than an actual speed.
We've got various different
ways of adding preview tracks
and reordering the data in the
file so that it will come down.
As it comes down, you get to see a really
meaningful representation of the
scene or the object right away.
With the panoramas,
we've got preview tracks,
so you get a low resolution
view of the whole thing.
And then the tiles come in,
alternating in front of your
main view so that very quickly
you get to see what's there.
And hotspots are active
almost immediately as well.
With objects,
people take advantage of it.
With objects, we can reorder the views so
that as the object comes down,
the first four views are the front, back,
left, and right, so that you can see all
the sides of the object,
pretty much immediately.
And then as more data is downloaded,
the panning nearly becomes smoother.
You see more and more
incremental views between them.
So these are ways in which a
slightly larger size file can
wind up giving you a much higher
quality experience for the user.
And the sort of thing that you can
only do with the photorealistic
renderings or photographic media
that we make up VR movies with,
as opposed to any kind of a 3D
sort of VR kind of approach.
And then there's a lot of
interesting things going on
with adding value to VR movies.
We can add links to the hotspots
that can be simple URL links,
or we can do more sophisticated things
with links and frames and so forth.
People are adding sound
and maps to help navigate,
and just building them into
more complicated presentations,
either using HTML and various
sorts of techniques like that,
or by using the QuickTime interactivity
that we've got to build movies
that are sophisticated and can
play right in the QuickTime player
or anywhere else that QuickTime plays.
So, I guess I just talked about
the FastArt exporter a bit.
The FastArt exporter is a
free component from Apple,
which is available in our
developer tools section.
Drop it in your system folder and
use it with QuickTime Player Pro to
export your VR movie,
whether it's an object or a pano,
as long as it's a single node,
and get those sort of FastArt benefits
that I was mentioning.
There are approaches to do it for
multi-node movies using... First off,
you can take a large multi-node movie
and run it through a third-party tool
such as Deliverator or Converter,
which are from VR Tools,
to provide the sort of same
preview tracks and so forth.
In my mind,
that sort of defeats some of the
power of the internet and all,
because still the user's got to
download the entire movie to view it.
And if it's a multi-node file and
they don't choose to visit every node,
they waste a lot of download time.
So it's simple to link the
multi-node movies as single,
separate nodes using the
URL links within your page.
And then the users only view
the nodes they will go to.
They get the hotspots pretty much
immediately upon seeing a preview track.
And you can have a pretty responsive
internet experience there.
So let's go over to this demo machine
and look at a bit of this stuff.
[Transcript missing]
Davo Photographic does, for instance,
he's put a VR object right in here,
a rather unusual VR object
into his main VR page.
You may recognize if you
spent time looking at
out at the various sites on the web,
his work, such as the...
and this PT Cruiser by Chrysler and all.
He's done a somewhat
non-standard view here.
Let's look at one that's
more of a normal rotation.
This one isn't standard either.
Okay, so he's done some interesting crane
work here to make it rotate around.
But these are the sort of
are all using the same technology,
but they're using a
different kind of media.
The same kind of media
that's used in the past.
That involves an object
as the starting point.
And then he's got some
panoramic views in here as well.
So we come around,
we can check out the engine, come around,
zoom in on the interior,
and then all the way around it.
[Transcript missing]
VR is obviously excellent
for architectural work.
Here he's done it without the preview,
so we saw the
[Transcript missing]
extend the experience by really
building it into a more complete
interactive sort of thing.
I'm going to a site done
by Dennis Glicksman,
a French VR author.
are all very good at this.
I'm going to give you a quick
overview of the features that
So this one, well we were on T1,
so it was hard, or T3 or whatever it is,
it was hard to tell,
but there was a preview
track there for a moment.
The tiles loaded on over it so quickly.
Let's pop to another view.
And he's got a map over here with
JavaScript kind of stuff going on to
determine what node you're going to see.
So this is a good example of using
the QuickTime VR with existing
HTML approaches to try and,
um,
to make for a much more
interactive experience,
which is giving a lot more information
to the user than just... than...
Then just the panorama
on its own as an example.
From there, to sort of go up the path
a little bit into more
[Transcript missing]
and other engineers have been involved
in the development of QuickTime VR.
There's some directional sound
here that they added probably
with the Squamish tools.
Squamish Media makes a tool called
SoundSaver for adding directional
and ambient sounds to VR movies.
And down here they have
another QuickTime movie.
This whole rectangular region at the
bottom is another QuickTime movie,
which is interacting
with the panorama above,
which can be changed either
through... I think there's
some hotspot links in here.
And the movie down below doesn't change,
but it continues to interact with it.
The compass is there, the controls,
and the map,
which we can click on to... I believe
we can click on the map to change modes.
Maybe not.
So this is, again,
we're not in a separate player,
but we've used multiple QuickTime movies
talking to each other with
intermovie communication to
really up the interactive experience
and make it less than just,
let's look at a movie there.
Another good example of
that by a Swedish developer,
a lot of European stuff going on
that's pretty fascinating here,
is...
are all part of the QuickTime team.
They're all part of the QuickTime team.
So,
we're going to be working with them to
develop a new version of QuickTime VR.
So,
we're going to be working with them to
develop a new version of QuickTime VR.
So,
we're going to be working with them to
develop a new version of QuickTime VR.
The VR Movie is embedded into a sprite
track which has got the meters for
the sound and rollover information.
In fact, and again a controller here.
You click on info and get some
rollover information about,
I believe we got some
Right, we can click on these people and
get information about who they are.
It doesn't zoom on them.
The movie on the right, the compass,
is giving us feedback similar
to the one we just saw.
So this is an even more complicated
example of intermovie communication.
And then they've got
some other things like...
are all working on the
new QuickTime games.
and Eric Blazow are all here.
I'm going to take a look
at the other slides.
all animated.
I believe they're building their
stuff mainly with Live Stage Pro,
which you guys are probably
hearing a certain amount about.
So that's, um,
Let's take a quick view
of that sort of thing.
Let's go a little further here.
This one's from a German developer,
Tim and Hample.
and he is building his interactive
experience with... This is
all one big QuickTime movie.
It's launching in the browser,
but it could just as well
be playing in the player.
And he's got a number of segments of
movies that jump from one to the next.
They're loading different
tracks at different points here.
Here we've got a VR movie that's masked.
You'll notice the corners are rounded.
He's got a track on top with
an alpha channel providing
for a non-rectangular frame.
That's something I think is
really unique to what we can do,
is the ability to layer up the
tracks and do that sort of masking.
Not only can we break out of
the 4:3 window that people seem
to think video has to be in,
but we can make it
non-rectangular as well.
Composition would be
much more interesting.
The sprites over here allow
for panning and so forth.
Then we can navigate the different
parts of the hotel this way.
I believe that we go outside here
and he's got linear movies of
beach activities and so forth,
which are also going to
play framed like that.
This is clearly a high bandwidth demo.
So the arrows don't do anything
because the frame has changed the same.
But the idea is that you've got
an interactive environment here
that is really the sort of thing
that a couple years ago you'd be
building in director or something.
Finally, a last one,
also by Tilman Hample of
Actum Film in Germany.
This is a simple demo,
but it shows something that I like
to show about just combining
these different media types.
We start out with a
walkthrough into the store.
We get to the end and he uses an
action at the end of the movie to
tell it to load a different movie.
It's a panorama of the
interior of the store.
We've got an object in front
of us that has a hotspot we can
click on once it's loaded here.
We click on that object and the object
movie is there composited into a frame
of the panorama so that you get the
object in place as opposed to being a
real jarring place where you got out of
it all and then there's a way to jump
back into the store and pan around there.
Alright,
so maybe we'll go back to the slides now.
So, a bit about Flash.
A few of those movies
had some Flash elements,
but mainly that was bitmap work.
Macromedia's done an excellent job
of developing a really first-class
graphics engine for doing vector artwork.
This is great because of the
small download footprint.
Also, so many of the creative artists out
there have a lot of work and skill
with vector artwork programs like
Illustrator and Freehand that they
can leverage into doing work in Flash.
And it's even becoming a bigger deal
with Adobe releasing their Live Motion,
which will allow people with familiarity
with the Adobe sort of tools to leverage
that into doing motion graphics.
And the motion graphics people use
After Effects and all to leverage
that into doing Flash work as well.
So I think Flash is just
going to keep going,
and we've announced
support of the Flash app.
We've announced support
of the Flash 4 format,
and we're going to just
keep working with it.
It also, we've...
have done a fair amount of work
to make the Flash movies composite
really nicely with QuickTime.
All the transparency that you get in a
Flash movie is there in the Flash track
when you've imported it into QuickTime.
And if you layer it with
other QuickTime media,
you can set the transparency to alpha.
You get all that selective
transparency and partial transparency
in your composition there,
and you can have things
play through it and all.
Um, so, that,
there's a lot of work you can
do with the animation there.
Um, and not only-- and again,
I think that's an exciting thing
about the Adobe Live Motion thing,
is that, um, the power of the,
the work that Adobe's done
with After Effects and all
in developing animation tools
will be available now for,
um, as an alternative approach
to the Flash authoring tools.
So there's gonna be two good tools
now for doing animation with Flash.
Um, also, it scales beautifully,
and you can build big interfaces with
QuickTime using Flash elements that
don't take any more time to download
than if they were scaled small.
So you can quit having to think of
your thing as going in a small window.
You can have a nice big
window with maybe the video.
You've gotta worry about the bandwidth
'cause you're going for a modem speed.
But that doesn't mean that your
presentation has to be small.
Um, and then-- Flash has a fair
amount of scripting in it.
Um, there's the various actions to
allow you to do various different
things with Flash elements.
But, um,
And that stuff is carried
across in QuickTime.
When you bring a Flash movie
into QuickTime with actions,
those get mapped to
QuickTime's own actions,
and you get the same interactivity there.
And you can get into combining it with
other media types and adding further
interactivity to the Flash track as well.
So, as you may have been hearing,
I'm big on combining the media types.
I have a multimedia background
and doing the CD-ROM work and all.
And I'm really excited to be
able to really make these things
as complex as possible and use
the elements that you need,
use the technologies you need for the
elements that they make sense for.
So we've got the sprites that
I was talking about that are great
for having buttons and bitmap
kind of things or doing stuff that
is best done in bitmap artwork.
We've got VR for doing,
QuickTime VR for doing the
scenes and the objects.
And Flash, providing a good scalable
animation tool that's vector-based.
And then all these other kinds
of QuickTime media as well.
Like the streaming media,
whether it's fast start
streaming or the RTSP streaming,
whether it's coming off a
regular HTTP server or a
QuickTime streaming server.
And then text and other things.
All of these media can very
nicely go together in QuickTime.
There's plenty of ways to control
these different elements once they
get put together with interactivity.
It's very possible to use QuickTime now
to create very custom players which
will play with a very minimal amount
of the branding from QuickTime,
which a lot of content
developers really want.
They want to have their identity
be the thing that gets put forward.
And pretty much once you finish
seeing the QuickTime queue load,
you can take over the presentation
from there and have it be your thing,
the way you want it to be.
And then use the QuickTime wiring
to make these into wired movies and
make them really do a whole lot.
So let's look at a little bit of that.
Let's see.
So the Swedish company Berserk,
I showed earlier, has done something
which is perhaps not the
This is going to be seen as incredibly...
it's not like an MTV kind of demo.
This is one where the city council of
a small town decided to use the web
to broadcast their council meetings.
And they hired the company to
build an interface for this.
So they're using MoviesOffice
streaming server,
which this is archived,
but it was done live.
And the track on the left here with
the text tracks can allow you to
index around within the presentation.
The agenda is shown here.
There's information about the
different parties involved.
They've got interactive control of the
movie in a straightforward way over here.
And there's a setup for commentary here.
The users,
upon clicking this bit of text here,
I guess it says click here,
to launch into a form for sending
an email to the presentation
as it's going on to discuss...
are all using QuickTime to
add their input.
So this was a very interactive use
of QuickTime to get some work done.
Then we'll look at a couple of things.
So this is a couple of
flash tracks in a VR movie.
We can pan around here
and view this stuff.
We've got Flash composited
over the QuickTime movie.
are all over the VR movie and
with animation going and all,
we've got interactive buttons over
here which are in the flash track
which send actions to the VR movie
to change to a different view.
This is just sort of a...
A simple art example,
but you could get much more
sophisticated than this.
I mean,
There's nothing going on here
but sending actions from the
VR movie to the flash track.
That could easily be done where we
could do things based on pan angle
or hotspot clicks or whatever to make
stuff go on back in the flash track
to change what you're seeing there,
give information about the view.
This consists of primarily three tracks.
The background, which is Flash,
and the VR movies layered on top of that.
And then there's another
Flash track on top,
which is set to alpha.
If you want to just put
together a movie with
A QuickTime track on
top of a Flash track,
you can very easily do that
in the Flash 4 authoring tool,
importing a QuickTime movie
and working with it there,
and then using Flash's publish
settings to publish this QuickTime.
And that will make a Flash track
and QuickTime tracks with whatever
QuickTime you had imported.
If you want to get into this sort of
thing where you're layering it up,
then you need to assemble
it somewhere else.
You can do that in Live Stage Pro,
which allows you to
bring in the VR tracks,
the Flash tracks, and so on,
layer them up, set their graphics modes,
and add things like the
actions on these buttons,
which change the node of
the VR movie at some point.
This is a simple demo.
So that's a simple sort of player...
I think we'll go from here back
to the slides and I'll talk about
another way that we can get more
sophisticated with our players.
The thing that happened
there was we had to...
We had to have the media that was
being played in the player really be
an integral part of the presentation.
We had to author it all together.
And had to get the rates
all to match and so forth.
In 4.1 we added movie tracks
through the movie media handler,
which allow you to make a new
kind of track in the movie which
uses for its media another movie.
And these movies can be linked together
without their time bases being slaved.
In other words,
we have separate clocks finally.
And that was something that in the past
was always necessary to go to a separate
authoring and runtime environments
where you could have multiple movies.
And then there was, the other thing about
this is reference media.
It doesn't have to be
built into the movie.
It can be referenced in a number of ways.
So we'll have a demo of that.
This movie was shown earlier in
one of the QuickTime sessions as an
example of putting something into
iShell to get a non-rectangular mask.
But it was just dropped
in there as a movie.
The movie itself has quite
a lot going on with it.
We've got the movie region,
quite obviously,
has got a movie track in it,
which we can control.
Fast Forward, Stop, Play, Step Forward.
I just downloaded these movies
before the presentation,
threw them in the folder here,
and named them Content 1, Content 2.
I can have up to eight movies
here with the names set up
with those sort of names,
and they get controlled
sequentially by this sprite here,
which chooses what track you're getting.
It's one movie track,
but it's a number of
different references.
This control determines which
reference we're picking,
and we'll get the same one over and
over again for the rest of the clicks,
because I only put two movies in.
We also made this player
something where you can change
the interface just for fun.
So that's an example of the kind
of player that you can't build.
I think it would be pretty
hard to build anywhere else.
And you can deliver it in QuickTime.
Obviously this one is non-rectangular.
You would want to have them these
days in a more integral sort of
appearance to make it work better,
but that's how that can work.
So if we go back to the slides now.
The final thing I want to talk
about is something that a lot
of content developers have been
worried about for some time,
which was the ability to reliably
detect whether QuickTime was installed
on a machine in the browser before
they gave the user the content.
We've incrementally
added a number of pieces.
With JavaScript,
people can do a fair amount of testing.
I've always been able to
in some of the browsers,
in the Netscape browsers and so forth.
[Transcript missing]
Hi there, I'm Sean.
I'm going to be talking
about two things today.
First thing is embedded movies,
this new feature with QuickTime 4.1.
There's a lot of things you
can do with embedded movies
that aren't maybe obvious.
QuickTime has always supported
multiple spatial tracks.
In a way, a lot of people ask,
"Don't you already do multiple movies
at once?" But the time bases there are
all synchronized to the same clock.
That would be one major difference.
Some of the advantages
of embedded movies.
One thing is that it's sort
of like frames in a web page.
I mean, frames,
you can download just part of a web page.
So with a movie with embedded movies,
you can bring in just
part of a sub-movie,
basically.
That also gives you, you know, redrawing.
You're not redrawing the whole movie.
So you can swap things in.
You can have less redrawing happen.
It also lets you factor out
sort of reusable components.
Like you can create movie controllers
that have custom looks and reuse
them with any movie that you want to.
I mentioned multiple clocks,
so you can have, say,
Eric just showed an example
with a movie being loaded and
controlled within the same movie.
There's also some technical
implementation things that are going
on with the movie media handler that
make it nice to actually go between
two different movies in a row.
So the movie track is what
is used to implement this.
The movie media handler is a
new media handler with POR1.
Basically,
each sample defines properties.
Since movies are complex, I mean,
they have spatial audio
and timing properties.
There's properties in the movie
media handler that you can set
to deal with all these things.
Another thing about the movie
media handler is that it has
a list of data references.
So basically one sample in a movie
track can have a whole list of
movies and you can just tell it,
"Okay,
I want to use this movie at this time."
So that's how you can swap things in.
And it's actually dynamic as well.
So if we take a look at a...
Sample Movie here.
This movie, the whole slide's one movie.
It's got four tracks.
The first track's a movie track.
We've got three samples,
so that could reference
three different movies.
And then we've got a background picture,
a sprite track, and a flash track.
The yellow timeline shows
what's actually alive or active.
So we see that you have multiple
movie samples in a way that's sort of
like a HyperCard page or something.
At this time that is current,
you only have the background
picture and the first movie alive.
If we go to the next time, well,
the first movie's gone,
but the second movie sample activates.
And in addition, now we can have sprites.
QuickTime VR Of course,
these things can be layered how
you want and arranged on the page
however you want in the movie.
Of course, and then third time,
the sprites are gone and we have Flash.
So if we kind of zoom in
on the movie layout here,
We see that, well,
the first movie sample actually
is referencing a movie that
has a video and audio track.
Now notice there's two timelines now,
because these don't have
to be slaved together.
You can actually have them independent.
So that
SubMovie can have its own clock and
can be controlled via wired actions
if you want to start and stop it,
change the rate, and so on.
You can opt to actually slave the time
bases if that's what you want to do.
So a movie sample, as I mentioned,
has multiple data references.
So here we have a movie sample
that's pre-authored to have three
different movies that it can
reference just by changing a property.
But it's also dynamic,
so we can add another movie.
We'll be showing some demos
later of how this can be useful.
But at runtime,
you can actually add or replace
any data reference in its list,
and then you can actually say, "Hey,
set the current movie to that."
Since all the movies are data reference,
they can be pointing in
sequence to the same media,
actually, if you want.
It doesn't have to be
all loaded into memory.
So the movie media has some settings
that you might want to check out if
you're building movies like this.
Basically,
you can opt to slave properties the time,
the duration, meaning the sample's
already got a duration,
and the movie's got a duration,
so how do you... Do you scale?
It's like adding scaled
in QuickTime Player.
Audio properties can be slaved,
like the volume or the balance.
Graphics mode can be slaved,
so it just... it gets
set to the parent movie.
And then there's some settings
for spatial dimensions as well.
And I'll be showing you
some examples of that later.
So actually, now,
so if we go over to the demo machine.
So first of all,
I'm just going to show you-- here's a
simple movie that just has color patches.
And these are the sizes of the
movie tracks in this movie.
And then we're going to
take our mascot here.
And we're going to basically see what
happens to him when we reference him as
a sub-movie using various scaling modes.
So I can close those down.
I'll leave that one up.
So first of all, the scroll mode
is in some ways probably the most,
what you'd expect the most.
It basically does not
scale the nested movie,
but does clip it.
So here we see that that's going on.
Second mode.
The camera actually just stretches
the movie to fill the entire thing.
So he's very full down here.
He's not so full over here.
There's sample code out on the
website right now that you can
check out that lets you build
embedded movies and actually play
with all these different settings.
So, meet, basically we see that it gets
stretched until it meets an edge.
And slice is fairly similar,
except it will stretch until it fills
the whole region and gets cut off.
[Transcript missing]
If we have a Flash movie
and a separate video movie,
People for a long time have wanted to
have video on a TV and an animation,
and the problem was always, "Well,
we don't have a non-slave time basis."
Now that we do,
we can combine these two into one movie,
so both are being referenced.
Notice that we have...
Control over the outer movie,
which is where the Flash movie is.
The Flash movie can actually
control the embedded movie.
Of course, you can start and stop the
other movies clocked too.
So we support,
in Flash we support all the
Flash reactions right now.
But to do this type of thing,
you can also,
we support on Flash buttons all
of the QuickTime wired actions.
So this is using wired actions
to actually tell the nested
movie to play and pause.
Okay, now, one last demo here.
So we've got--this is
actually a sprite movie,
and we can drag around the pieces,
smuggle the photo model.
So I'm going to create Smubble here.
You're probably wondering,
what does this have to
do with movie and movies,
since this is a sprite track and
actually down here a text track?
It's a good question.
So what I've added to Smubble is a
"take a picture of Smubble" button.
So what this is doing is actually,
in the wired movie,
it's asking each sprite for its position.
It's putting those positions,
it's passing them to, in this case,
a HyperCard CGI that's running over here.
And what we get back
is not a sprite movie,
actually.
In fact, it's a movie with a lot
of sub-movies in it.
Each sub-movie is a picture.
This is actually,
and he's got a funny ear there,
so let's take another picture.
Maybe a side view here.
Step on his hat.
Yeah, there we go.
So anyway.
So this kind of thing is sort
of interesting because this file
that's coming back is a SMIL file,
so it's really small.
All the media is actually on the server.
So you could imagine doing this kind of
thing with iCards or something like that,
where it's very interactive
client experience with...
[Transcript missing]
So, we briefly take a,
I don't know if we briefly crash.
[Transcript missing]
Movie in Movie,
how do you create these things?
You can actually use SMIL,
like I just mentioned,
and what was being returned
there from the server was,
in fact, a SMIL file.
You can author them in a program
like Live Stage Pro or build your own
application as sample code on the server.
And I want to quickly talk about how the
and Cesar Jaramillo,
and we're going to talk about how
QuickTime can be used to enhance the
overall user experience of your product.
So, we're going to talk about how
QuickTime can be used to enhance the
overall user experience of your product.
We're going to talk about how
QuickTime can be used to enhance the
overall user experience of your product.
So there are definitely some advantages
of using Movie Media Handler.
basically covered most of
them and running low on time,
so I'm going to come back later
and talk about some new stuff.
But Bryce Wolfson will be up here
to talk about some new stuff.
Good morning.
I'm here to talk to you about
something you might have seen already.
It showed up in our keynote,
panoramic projection extension.
So far, what we've had for use is
traditional cylindrical panoramas,
as we introduced several years ago.
It provides a nice immersive
photographic experience,
but you don't get to look all
the way up and all the way down.
It's hard to explain this,
so I actually want to go ahead and
go straight to demo machine one.
For those of you who might have not
made a 10:00 AM keynote on Monday but
managed to come to a 9:00 AM session,
I suppose there's some
chance you haven't seen this.
So we have some movies that
were taken out in Las Vegas.
Well, I shouldn't tell you that.
But here's the Eiffel Tower, by the way.
It's Las Vegas.
That's the Phil Schiller surprise.
And I'd sure like to be
able to look up there,
but of course that seems
to be a problem here.
Now we can.
And we can even get up and see the
moon and get a little dizzy if we want.
So that's really the fundamental
introduction to QUBES and what it means.
It takes us where we haven't been before.
Can we go back to slides, please?
So what is this?
It's a new rendering engine.
Provides fully immersive views,
so we can look all the way up and down.
And in fact,
as I'll show you a little bit later,
we can do more than that.
And
Very importantly in some cases,
there aren't artificial bump
stops at the top and the bottom.
And I'll show you that
a little bit later too.
It can be a little jarring when
you're in an immersive experience
to be looking up and maybe there
isn't anything interesting to see,
but you run into an
artificial limitation.
We use a cubic texture map,
as I mentioned.
I'll show you some of the details
of that in a little bit as well.
And we want to sort of make a
point that this is an addition
to cylindrical panoramas.
There are several reasons that
this isn't actually a replacement.
In many, many ways, it's just the same.
It's exactly what you're used
to as far as user experience
and several other factors.
But there are a few
things that are different.
So, just like cylindrical panoramas,
we've worked really hard to maintain
very similar playback speed and
quality for comparable content.
Hotspots, just as you have seen them now.
Multinodes, you can do links between
nodes within the same movie.
Use URLs in the browser,
trigger JavaScript, anything like that,
and wired hotspots as well,
which allow you to trigger many of
the interactive things that have
been shown elsewhere in the session.
We have fast start previews,
which gives you a better
user experience on the net.
About 10% of the file comes
down and you have some version
that you can interact with,
typically.
We provide tilt constraints,
which I'll also show you in a little bit.
Sometimes you don't
have all of the content,
for various reasons,
usually relating to capture.
And the file format is amazingly similar.
As a result,
many tools interact with cubic
panoramas just the same way they
do with cylindrical panoramas.
If they don't do anything that's really
specific to the cylindrical format,
it works out really well.
It just works.
A couple of exceptions,
as I noted before,
starting with the second one.
First, actually,
you can look straight up and down.
That's sort of the underlying theme here.
Also, there's real benefits
in the file format size,
especially in things such as
automotive industry and architecture,
and there's a few other examples as well.
People have been working really
hard to use QuickTime VR to
do high field of view,
where you can look very
far up and very far down.
But you run into some real
issues with file size.
Cylinders don't like to go beyond
about 100 degrees before every little
bit more starts to cost you a lot.
You wind up with a lot of detail
up and a lot of detail down,
where it's not all that
interesting necessarily,
and it's just buying
you a few more degrees.
So if I can go back to demo,
show you a few of these things.
First, just to take a look at the format,
this is just a cylinder exterior view,
and we can take a look inside,
and this is the cylindrical experience
as many people have seen it already.
Hotspots takes us right back outside.
Similar effect with a cube.
This is different content.
This is what's fundamentally going on,
is there's six surfaces involved.
And, uh...
When you hop inside and
get the all the way up,
all the way down effect.
And again, we have hotspots.
It's a multi-node movie.
You can mix and match cylinders and cubes
in the same movie as it makes sense.
Fast Start.
We have a 100 megabit network
up here between machines,
so trying to scale down for
bandwidth is a little interesting.
So I have a tool here called Deliverator.
It's from VR Tools.
Not specific to VR.
It's actually a
Very useful tool for
a variety of reasons.
It knows how to
Understand how your file is
laid out and deal with that.
Set up for optimal fast start.
Many of the interactive medias,
if not all of them at this point,
don't really deal with streaming
well because streaming is inherently
time-based and interactivity is not.
So fast start remains
very important to us.
Here I can say, pretend I'm on a dual
ISDN connection and show me what
this would look like coming down.
And this is the grid.
In this case it happens to
look very much like a holodeck.
And you can watch the tiles coming in.
This is what you would get if
you don't put a preview in,
if you happen to be looking at
this over a network connection.
In this case we have some
interesting content up here,
which doesn't all come
in on the first tile.
And if you have a fast start preview,
isn't all there immediately.
There's an option,
which I'll mention in a minute,
to actually change where
the faces are located.
For, uh,
are all here today to
help solve that problem.
So in this case, I went ahead and put a
fast start preview on it.
This one just is for good visual effect.
You might not choose to do
this colorized edge detection.
Oh, I'm sorry, this one's low start,
low res, same thing.
So you can actually
As the tiles come in, if we look here,
we'll be able to see a little
bit of a delineation between
lower resolution information here
and higher resolution down here.
And this one shows the
effect much more prominently.
This was the end edge
detection colorized.
So again,
this provides a neat visual effect
until tiles actually start coming in,
but when they do,
it's a little bit jarring.
And there's one more thing
that we've worked on as well,
which is backwards compatibility
back to QuickTime 4.0.
So if you--not everybody
updates immediately,
that's just how it goes,
as much as we might like otherwise.
And so,
Rather than forcing people to
have to go get a new QuickTime,
you can actually open these
movies up in a cylindrical viewer,
and they behave like cylindrical movies.
In some cases,
the content doesn't really show it.
There aren't any real visual effects
in many cases that are very obvious.
Sometimes it's a little more obvious.
Here, the top of this building,
for example,
this is supposed to be round.
But the effect is much better
than "Can't play this movie,
go get a new QuickTime." Of course,
you can make people do that
if that's what you want.
Go back to the slides, please.
So texture map, six faces of cube,
they're ordinary 90 degree by
90 degree perspective views you
can get out of any renderer.
Many renders today
support cylinder output.
This is even simpler because
they're just standard photographs.
Smaller memory and file footprints.
The memory footprint being smaller
is nice too as well for high
field of view because cylinders,
when you get up high,
you're eating memory as well.
And as I noted,
cylinders do still have their use.
Primarily, they're backwards compatible
much further back.
They're proven.
And there's a lot more tool support for
things that do care about cylinders.
And sometimes the ceiling isn't
interesting or a high field of view,
such as outdoor scenes.
So this is just simple
side-by-side illustration.
An example, again,
outdoor scene maybe all the
way up isn't interesting.
This is a file size comparison.
And what we see happen here
is cubes stay constant.
They've got six faces for a
given quality of source image,
given horizon size.
This is 2K pixels around.
And what happens is we get a crossover
at about 100 degrees field of view,
and by 135,
a cylinder is double the size.
135 isn't actually all that high.
And 160, which some of the
automotive content uses,
we're up to almost five times the
file size of an equivalent cube.
And that file size goes somewhere.
You have detail,
but it's all the way up at the top
and all the way down at the bottom.
And if you're zooming in on the
carpet on the bottom of a car,
that's not near as interesting, perhaps,
as the dash.
And what's going on here is this is a
cross-section of a cylinder on the left,
cube on the right.
You can see on the cylinder,
the first 125 degrees takes the same
number of pixels as the next 25,
or to look at it a different way,
you know, 25 at the horizon is...
uses far fewer pixels.
And I just want to have
one more demo here.
So here's a cubic panorama
taken in LA's Union Station.
And it's really nice.
Good stuff to look at as we come around.
Nice ceiling.
But the floor here is pretty nice too,
which is interesting.
But, oh my, there's a tripod here.
And that's just a fundamental
inherent issue with doing photographic
content is you have to be there.
Trying to hide the photographer in
an immersive environment is hard.
Not too bad when you
can take it in sections,
but there's some fixed
equipment that just stays there.
In this particular case,
because the floor is interesting,
some creative Photoshop work
takes care of the problem and
the floor gets reconstructed.
Or perhaps take a picture just
straight down and use a little
bit of work to get that in.
There are some capture techniques
that are on the horizon perhaps
that don't have these issues.
Not really addressing capture
at this point because we're
just looking at how to deal with
some of these issues in runtime.
Here's another one.
This is a lobby where this was
taken with a Panascan camera.
It doesn't quite get all the way down,
so we have a bit of a hole in the bottom.
And this maybe isn't interesting.
It's the stairs.
You could Photoshop, put in some carpet,
whatever.
Some people put in a logo.
Or perhaps there isn't that anything
real beneficial in coming down here.
So we do have tilt limits just
like what you would expect with
a cylindrical panorama where
we can limit the tilt down.
In fact, I cheated.
The first cylinder I showed
you and followed by the cube,
that was actually a cube with
limits on top and bottom to
make it look like a cylinder.
So in this case,
there are some other things we can
do as well because cubes do have
all the information all the way up.
And we can actually go a little
far and the world gets upside down.
So...
Which helps get rid of the stop up here.
And then...
Last, just to look briefly at
the bump stops issue again.
Here, you saw this movie a little
bit earlier with Eric.
And this is one where maybe there
isn't anything interesting to see,
but you just run into an
arbitrary limit at the top,
and again, at the bottom.
Not really missing anything.
The floor,
maybe a little bit of the center console.
So take a look here.
This is large and high resolution,
so it takes a moment to load.
This still has a bottom drop,
which maybe isn't such a big deal,
but when you're looking up,
you don't run into a barrier at all.
Again, nothing interesting,
and in this particular case...
There's not only no
boundary up at the top,
but also in a car, again,
it's just a center console,
but there's nothing to stop
you at the bottom either.
Back to slides, please.
So, just real quick,
we're running a little bit long here.
Making cubic nodes, images,
talked about 90 degrees field of view,
the edge pixels are shared
through the centers.
The CD you got should have had
file format information on it,
which should cover much
of this information.
Just like a cylinder, panosample,
but there's some backwards
compatibility information in there,
so that the older versions
of VR can read it.
There's a new field that you say, "Hey,
this is a cube." New view atoms,
which actually contain the data
describing where things are.
and optionally where the
individual faces are,
which allows you to rearrange
things if that's interesting,
such as for where the primary
content was in that one panorama.
Standard face ordering clockwise
is just like cylinders,
which allows us to have that backwards
compatibility and can easily be changed,
for example,
to a diamond face orientation.
So, in summary, I'm going to go ahead and
hand this back over to Sean,
and he'll talk to you a little bit more.
Okay, finish the restart.
We don't have to show that part.
Let's go to the slides really quick.
Okay, I got 12 minutes and I'm
going to put it into three.
Let's see if we can do that.
Yeah, okay,
right now we have wired variables
and all it can do is basically
hang off of a sprite track.
So people have wanted more than that.
We basically want to
do more in the future.
So we've been working on some stuff that
will allow us to have name variables,
attach it to any sprite or movie,
handle event parameters, have structures,
and even local variables.
So how are we going to do this?
We're going to actually introduce an API,
QTList.
It's going to be a toolbox API and
it's going to be scriptable.
So we're going to be able to
build these hierarchical lists
and import and export XML.
So we're going to actually be
able to deal with XML on the
client side to some degree.
So these lists are going to
live on movies and tracks,
so they're always available
from wired scripting there.
And also when you're in an event handler,
you're going to be able to
access the events such as
mouse.x or something like that.
They're basically like XML nodes that
are going to be living in the movie.
So here the movie's
calling movie_get_element,
and we're going to have some string.
You can actually just say my_color.red
to go down the hierarchy of the XML.
Again, mouse.x or h.
Anyway, besides doing,
KT lists will be useful for other
things besides just variables
and structures and so on.
We're going to be able to use them to
exchange data from a client to a server.
Right now when we say go to URL,
we can pass a little bit of
information up to like 5,
12 characters I guess.
And what you get back is always a movie.
So this is going to let you actually say,
hey, here's some information.
I want information back.
If you've read about
RPC or something like that,
it's basically passing XML and an
HTTP request and getting back XML.
So we'll be able to support
that kind of thing as well.
I'm just going to go to the demo now.
So what we've done is set up
a WebObject server with media,
and in a database we have some movies,
some images, some audio.
We've defined two basically API,
if you want to call it, routines.
One is search media,
and you can pass the type and
even a substring to search,
and WebObjects will handle that.
And what that is actually
returning is XML that the client
movie can take a look at and use.
So we just launch Netscape here.
What I'm going to do is just
paste in a URL which is going
to be handled by WebObjects.
So if I view source on what came back,
I just did a search media
for media type video.
So from the database it
actually has returned all this
information into the movie.
And the client movie can actually get
to all that through wired scripting.
So we can actually find
out that here's a URL,
here's an ID,
a duration for each element, and a title.
Let's try...
The other API that we
defined was buildSmile.
So what this is going to do--
is building a SMIL file,
and we have a simple
little encoding here.
Here it's just a single element.
So if I execute that,
WebObjects is returning a SMIL file,
and it's just a single
little video clip here.
I just asked for media ID 3.
So let's just do one slightly
more complex one where we
have audio in parallel.
So here WebObjects is returning
a little slideshow with several
pictures and some audio,
and it's got timed information.
The only thing we passed was
originally the idea is you can say,
"Hey, what do you have?" Do a
search or something like that,
and then construct a movie.
So it only had three images,
so it's already gone.
So what we did was we put together
The crazy client-side movie,
it's not quite finished,
but it's exercising some
of these new features.
And the idea was,
it was going to be a media browser,
so you can browse for movies, audio,
or images.
And so if we browse for images, say with
The letter F, and we find this flower.
So that actually got
returned through the list,
and what it returned was the URL.
So then we did a set on,
we have four nested movies here,
and on the first nested movie,
we did add URL, and we got that out of
the XML that was returned.
And now we can actually see that movie.
If we want to search for
maybe a different one.
You'll also notice we're
typing in text fields here.
and which is something you'll
be able to do in the future,
not now.
And then basically I hooked
up a build it button which
is just building right now a
canned movie that should load in.
It's taking a long time.
So I'll go back to slides.
Oh, there it is.
So basically, really briefly,
the Exchange List action that
we will have lets you do in
one HTTP request response loop,
lets you ask for information.
I actually send XML information
and return XML information back.
So I think I should stop now.
Thanks.
Well, looks like this session
was a little bit busy,
but I just wanted to say
some of the closing remarks.
That the Vis-a-vis interactive stuff is
tightly integrated in part of QuickTime,
so you always have access to them.
So I strongly encourage you to
try some of these things out.
And then we're going to have a
feedback session in this afternoon.
So I strongly encourage you
to come to that session,
and then we'd like to hear
some of your feedback.
Thanks again,
and enjoy the rest of the conference.